## LeetCode 2310. Sum of Numbers With Units Digit K

Problem:

Given two ints num and k, return the minimum size of a set of number s.t. the elements in set sum to num and the units digit of every element is k. If no such set exists, return -1.

Ex1: num = 58 & k = 9, minimumNumbers(n, k) = 2.

One set is [9, 49] as sum(set) = 58 and every units digit is 9
Another set is [19,39] which also has size 2
Ex2: num = 37 & k = 2, mN(n,k) = -1

It is not possible to obtain a sum of 37 with digits that end in 2.
Note: a set of digits ending in two can never sum to an odd number
Ex3: num=0 & k=7 mN(n,k) = 0

The sum of an empty set is considered 0.

Whiteboard:

If num ends in k, then the smallest set would have size one because that means that number alone in the set returns a sum and has the correct digits place allocation. Ex mn(48, 8) -> 1

Moving over amounts:

When n=58, k=9, we move over the amount k to the next num creating set size 2 and if n is left with the correct ints place we return the new res
But what if the 2 set was one more, such as n=20 and 4-> 4,16 and then 14,6 which doesnt pass but if we take a k away from our new n we get 14 4 2 which still wont pass
We need to think of a way to device first reweighting by tens to see if something new will hold or increasing container size. At every increase of container size we need to add one k to every new value
n=58, k=8

if n ends in k, return 1
[58] satisfies the requirement of summing up to n and having k at every units place
n=58, k=7

[58] no, then add a k to the new space in the container, [7,51] no, but we have to see if there are two values that both end in 7.
Numbers that end in 7 on one side would be k+=10 to check if n ends in 7 yet
[17, 41] -> [27,31] -> [37,21] no actually += 10 doesn’t change ones unit so checking a reweight of amounts doesn’t do anything
next option is to increase container size to 3.
[7,7,44] -> [7,7,7,37] does work because it sums to 58 and has k in every spot
To check if n’s unit place is k we must 37%10 because that equals 7
if n%(10^math.floor(math.log(n))) == k we can stop and return 4]
else we must subtract k from n and check again
Pseudocode:

count = 0
while n > 0: 
  if n % 10^floor(log(num)) == k:
    return count
  n -= k
  count++
return -1
Debugging:

mN(37,2) = 14 not -1 ⬜

cout<<last digit
should be 7, 5, 3, 1, 9, 7, 5, 3, 1, 9…
cout<<n last digit resulted in seeing that when n < 10, it starts doing n % 1 because 10⁰ is 1
mN(4,0) = infinity loop not -1

if k == 0, are there any items that end in 0 that can equal n.
well to end in k you must actually be a 10 to add to the sum
mN(10, 0) = infinity loop not 1

if k == 0, k+= 10 but this would not work for lets say 100, 0 because it would see if 0 ==k which would be changed to 10, and that would not work.
TC 222/298

After much chugging away, I do not think I alone can get any closer to the correct answer for this problem, so I will go to the winner of the contest’s solution and trace their code to see what could would pass all cases. The k=0 case for me is very difficult since it can be both 1 or -1 or even the empty set if n is 0 in addition.

Penguinhacker’s Solution (C++):

int minimumNumbers(int num, int k) {
     if (!num) return 0;
     for (int i=1; i<=100; ++i) {
        if (k*i<=num&&(k*i)%10==num%10) {
           return i;
        }
    }
    return -1;
}
Iterate through container size 1 through 100, and if container 100 can’t reach the solution return -1. Work is completed by

k*i≤num && (k*i)%10 == num%10.

This line checks if the left hand side of the container is first less than the num, and then it checks the units place of the left hand’s sum is the same as the units place of the right hand sum.

Let set be the container set that wants to be minimized.

i=1, set =[num] so then we should check the units digit and whether = k.

i=2, set=[k, num-k] so then 2k%10==num%10, b

i=3, set=[k, k, num-2k]

mN(58,9)

i=1 -> 9<58⬜&&(9%10==58%10) !⬜
i=2 -> 18<58 ⬜&&(18%10==58%10)⬜ return 2;
Imagine if num = 2378940936 (ENDING IN 36) AND K = 9

IT DOESNT MATTER WHAT THE FIRST OF THE NUMBERS OF THE CONTAINERS. LIKE ____9 + ____9 + ____9 + ____9 = ______36

So if the (i (THE CONTAINER SIZE//RETURN VAL) * k) % 10 == NUM % 10: the container size has units digit all equal to k, and the sum is achieved because THE NON UNITS DIGIT IS ARBITRARY and can be reweighted in any fashion from any numbers from 0->n//10 for every element in the final set.

n = 38, k = 4

k*1 = 4%10=4 while 38%10 = 8

k*2 = 8%10=8 AND 38%10 = 8, SO _4 + _4 = 38

which is true because we can arbitrarily put both the sets 0,3 and 1,2 and their swap digit place numbers.

At max, the container size will be 10 because if our n was every high it would still need to end in 0–9 and this would only happen with the weightings of the non tens units being arbitrary and and matching the mod of the ending sum with mod of the num.

Pseudocode:

if n == 0: return 0; EMPTY SET (a set of no numbers has sum 0)
for i=1 -> 10: //i is the size of the container
  the sum of the unit's place over every container = i*k
  the units place of that number is i*k%10
  the numbers units place is n%10
  if the units place digits match & the sum of units digits < n:
    return how many containers it took for that to happen.
return -1
k*i means that over i containers there is a k in the units place regardless of what happens after that. If that number matches the end number than the sum of numbers in the units digit is equal to the num.

Final Solution (Py3):

def minimumNumbers(n:int, k:int):
  if num == 0: return 0
  for i in range(1,11):
    if (k*i)%10 == num%10 and (k*i) <= num:
      return i
  return -1
T.C. O(10) or O(b) which is the base of the numbers. The max amount of runs this will need is the amount of containers possible which is dependent on the number that you’re modding by which is the base. k*i % 10 repeats after i=11 because 11*k%10 == 1*k%10 all are .9
