## Leetcode 432 Hard - All O(1) Data Structure

### Question

Design a data structure to store the strings' count with the ability to return the strings with minimum and maximum counts.

Implement the `AllOne` class:
- `AllOne()` - initializes the object of the data structure
- `inc(String key)` - increments the count of the string `key` by 1. If the key does not exist, insert it with count 1.
- `dec(String key)` - decrements the count of the string `key` by 1. If the count of string `key` becomes 0, remove it from the data structure
- `getMaxKey()` - returns one of the keys with the max count. If no element, return ""
- `getMinKey()` - returns one of the keys with the min count. If no element, return ""

Each function *must* run in $O(1)$ average time complexity.

### Examples

Input:
["AllOne", "inc", "inc", "getMaxKey", "getMinKey", "inc", "getMaxKey", "getMinKey"]

Params:
[ [], ["hello"], ["hello"], [], [], ["leet"], [], [] ]

Explanation:
- AllOne allOne = new AllOne();
- allOne.inc("hello");
- allOne.inc("hello");
- allOne.getMaxKey(); -> "hello"
- allOne.getMinKey(); -> "hello"
- allOne.inc("leet");
- allOne.getMaxKey(); -> "hello"
- allOne.getMinKey(); -> "leet"

Output:
[null, null, null, "hello", "hello", null, "hello", "leet"]

### Constraints
- `1 <= key.length() <= 10`
- It is guaranteed that in every call `dec(String key)`, `key` exists in the data structure
- At most, $5*10^4$ calls will be made to member functions

### Whiteboard

Getting min and max from a set of numbers can be done in $O(1)$ time using a min-heap or a max-heap.

Constant time access is required which can be done in $O(1)$ time in a hash map (`std::unordered_map`).

To achieve this behavior, we need private data members, like a minHeap, a maxHeap, and an unordered_map.

Further there might be an optimized data structure that combines both a minHeap and a maxHeap. 

A min/max heap is a binary tree with different amounts of priorities at each level which are readjusted after operations using trickling up or trickling down to keep the min at the top.

d