## Leetcode 2486 Medium - Append Characters to String to Make Subsequecnce

### Question

Given str s and t, return the minimum number of characters that need to be appended to the end of s s.t. t becomes a subseqeunce of s.

A subsequence is a str that can be derived from another str by deleting some or no chars without changing order.

### Examples

s = "coaching", t = "coding"; sol(s,t) = 4. 

Adding the characters "ding" to the end of s := "coachingding", and then deleting "aching" makes s into t.

s = "abcde", t = "a"; sol(s,t) = 0.

t is already a subsequence of s ("*a*bcde").

s = "z", t = "abcde"; sol(s,t) = 5. 

Appending "abcde" to the end of s makes t a subsequence of s.

### Psuedocode

If a character appears in s in the order it appears in t, then it doesn't need to be added to the end. 

Brute Force: Go to every character in t, and then go through every character in s and if it exists remove it from t until t is empty.

If we reach the end of s while trying to find a letter in t, then we add the rest of t to s.

```
for ch in t:
  if ch in s: make sure the index its at is viable
     delete the character from t,
     iterate t
  else if ch not in s or index is not viable:
     end search and return num chars left in t
```

### Code

```cpp
int appendCharacters(string s, string t)
{
    int tIdx=0;
    while(tIdx<t.length())
    {
        char ch=t[tIdx];
        if(s.find(ch)<s.length()) 
        {
            t.erase(t.begin());
        }
        else
        {
            return t.length();
        }
    }
    return 0;
}
```

Passes 3 example test cases. Running on the full suite, passes 68 out of 85 cases.

Since my code calls `string::find()` at each iteration to check existence in `s` it runs in $O(n*m)$ where n and m are the lengths of `s` and `t` respectively.  This approach times out.

Another facet of this problem is that characters that coincide between the two strings must appear in the same order. Since they must in the same order, we can use a two pointer solution which iterates a `tIndex` pointer once `t[tIndex]==s[sIndex]`, then the number of characters left which need to be appended becomes `len(t)-tIndex` where `tIndex` signals how many times we have moved forward characters that appear in both strings.

### Psuedocode

Find each character in t in s from the beginning, then the number of characters needing to be added is the difference between the length of t and how many characters of t that were found in s.

```
appendCharacters(s,t):
	assign j, the t index, to 0
	iterate through s:
		check whether s's char is in t
			count how many times this happens (j++)
	return len(t)-j
```

### Final Code (C++)

```cpp
int appendCharcters(string s, string t)
{
	int j=0; //index of how deep we are in t
	for(auto ch: s)
	{
		if(ch==t[j]){
			j++;
		}
	}
	return t.size()-j;
}
```

Passes all test cases.

Runtime: $O(n)$ where $n$ is the length of string s
Storage: $O(1)$
