## Leetcode 2487 Medium - Remove Nodes From Linked List

### Question

Given the head of a linked list, remove every node which has a node with a strictly greater value anywhere to the right side of it.

Return the head of the modified linked list.

### Examples

head = [5,2,13,3,8]; sol(head) = [13, 8]

- Node 13 is to the right of 5.
- Node 13 is to the right of 2.
- Node 8 is to the right of 8.

head = [1,1,1,1]; sol(head) = [1,1,1,1]

Every node has value 1, so no node is strictly greater than any other node, so no nodes are removed.

### Work

We want to store a value `rightMax` s.t. if we compare the current node's value with it, we can decide whether we need to skip it or not, but without a tail pointer this skipping must happen on the way back after getting the numbers that are to the right of a specific node.

We want to gather data on the way down, and use that data to create a new list which we can return.

Since the left values are closer to head, we need to use a data structure that can backtrack on the values of the linked list. A stack can work great to keep track of the values we have seen.

If the max of the values we have already seen is greater than the current value (towards the left), then the value can be added to a new linked list at the end.

### Psuedocode

```
removeNodes(LinkedList head)
	stack st
	while (head is not null)
		push val to stack
	LL res;
	curMax = -1
	previousLL = null
	while (stack is not empty)
		val = st.pop
		if val > currMax:
			add a new node to res, with its next ptr going to prevLL
			assign new LL to prev LL 
	return res
```

### Debugging 

If the values on the right are strictly greater than the current value, then the values on the left being **less than or equal to** the current value implies the same thing.

### Final Code (C++)

```cpp
ListNode* removeNodes(ListNode* head){
    stack<int> st;
    ListNode* cur = head;
    while (cur != nullptr){
        st.push(cur->val);
        cur = cur->next;
    }

    ListNode* res;
    int currMax = -1;
    ListNode* prev = nullptr;

    while (!st.empty())
    {
        int val=st.top();
        if (val>=currMax){
            currMax = val;
            res = new ListNode(val, prev);
            prev = res;
        }
        st.pop();
    }
    return res;
}
```

Passes all test cases.

Runtime: $O(n)$
Storage: $O(n)$ for the stack

Although this solution passes all test cases, it creates new nodes which are allocated on the heap as a part of the return linked list, and those are not deallocated after the termination of `main()` which causes a memory leak. 

To accomplish this task without the memory leak, we need to complete the task recursively without creating new nodes. 

### Work

To accomplish this, we need to recursively work with the tail first. To do this, we can call `removeNodes()` on the next node to head and reassign that to the next value. Through assigning the values to nodes up the stack, we can see that assigning the max value either to the node that we were working with or checking the next node can have us remove the nodes we need to remove.

### Algorithm

- Call `removeNodes()` first to handle the tail first.
- Return the next node if the left side is less than the value of the next node, else return the current node.

### Psuedocode

```
func removeNodes(head):
    if head is null: return null
    head.next = removeNodes(head.next)
    if head.next != null && head.val < head.next.val:
        return head.next
    else
        return head 
```

### Final Solution (C++)

```cpp
ListNode* removeNodes(ListNode* head)
{
    if (head==NULL) return NULL;
    head->next=removeNodes(head->next);
    if (head->next != NULL && head->val < head->next->val)
    {
        return head->next;
    }
    else
    {
        return head;
    }
}
```
